Let's talk about TypeScript.
Anyone excited about TypeScript?
People are either like,
I'm not sure about this.
Or they're excited about it and
they wanna tell me about it.
Or they do not wanna talk
about TypeScript at all.
And they're just gonna turn off the stream
right now, it's a polarizing figure.
I have to say that I'm
a big fan of TypeScript.
But also, my peer is the manager
of TypeScript at Microsoft.
So I'm obligated to say that as well,
or he might never talk to me again.
All right, well, first thing is we need to
get another fresh copy of our repo here.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So you and
I are going to quickly convert this
entire application to using TypeScript.
So we're gonna do a migration together,
which I think is probably useful for
a lot of you.
Because if you wanna use TypeScript,
you're probably gonna have to migrate the
current application that you're writing.
Don't get me wrong, it's a lot
easier to start with TypeScript.
Because then you get all
the benefits out of the box.
And I have a strong feeling that
TypeScript is incredibly annoying and
not useful if it's only
30% of your application.
But it's the most useful tool in
my toolbelt if it covers all of my
application.
So if I can use TypeScript on every file,
and they get type checking on every file,
it's incredibly useful.
But the moment that you're only using
an on part of your application,
it really loses a lot of its usefulness
because you don't get the same guarantees.
Okay, so let's do npm i -D
typescript@4.2.2.
So, this is not gonna be
a full intro to TypeScript.
There's a great course already in Frontend
Masters called TypeScript Fundamentals,
from Mike North,
my former co-worker from LinkedIn.
That's really great, so that's a really
good place for you to get started.
So why TypeScript, what is TypeScript?
Let's talk about that for just a second.
TypeScript is a type checker for
JavaScript.
JavaScript is an untyped language.
Which means whenever you create,
like if I say const x = 5,
because this is a dynamic language,
I don't have to say const x: number,
like that.
Whereas if you're in something like Java,
you need to tell Java this is a number and
I promise this is never gonna
change from being a number.
And Java is going to believe you,
foolishly,
because you're probably gonna trick it.
TypeScript allows you to have that same
sort of type checking in this dynamic
language.
And while it ends up being more verbose,
you have to write more
things with TypeScript.
You also get to have assurance
that you're not gonna
have random crashings
cuz of type mismatches.
But my favorite part of it is that
if I import something from React,
I don't have to go look
at the documentation.
I can just look at the types
directly in Visual Studio Code.
And I will say that Visual Studio Code and
TypeScript is like a match made in heaven.
And it's no accident that
the TypeScript team and
the Visual Studio Code team
are the same team at Microsoft.
It's because those two things go together,
right?
So we have TypeScript now.
Now what I want you to do is I want
you to say here in your console,
npx tsc --init.
What is tsc?
It's another node binary that comes
from the TypeScript installation that
allows you to run the TypeScript checker.
And so the init command here
will init a new project for you,
it'll give you a new configuration.
Okay, so now you should have
this tsconfig.json down here.
And this is a commented JSON file for you.
But we have to go change a couple
of these, so let's go change them.
First thing here,
we want this to be not ES5, but ES2020.
The modules we're going to be using,
I believe the modules, no.
What do I say here?
ES, 2020, let's just do that,
ES2020 here as well.
And then here, we have to go into the jsx,
and we're gonna leave that
on "preserve" I think.
Okay, so the thing to just think
about here is normally the TypeScript
binary is going to be doing your
compilation of TypeScript for you.
But in this particular case, it's actually
Parcel that's gonna do this for us, so
this is actually less important.
This is actually mostly for
the type checking.
Okay, and the one thing to note here is,
if you're starting in
a really big project,
you're gonna start with "strict": false.
It's not gonna yell at you constantly
about, hey, everything is broken.
And it's on fire, and
I don't know what to do about it.
If you put it in "strict": true, it's
gonna do that and you're gonna hate it.
False is gonna allow you to
kinda get started kinda slowly.
But we're gonna complete
the whole migration right now.
So we're gonna leave this on true because
it's gonna help us out to do that.
Okay, the next thing that we're gonna
need is we're gonna need some type files.
So that not everything is written
in TypeScript, obviously.
For example, I don't think React is
necessarily written in TypeScript.
So we need to install the types from
something called DefinitelyTyped.
So this is a place where
you can put types for
things that are not written in TypeScript.
So what's a good example of something
that is written in TypeScript?
Like Angular,
Angular itself is written in TypeScript.
Which means that it provides
its own definition files.
Which means that if you install Angular,
you get all the types for free.
Whereas something like React,
you actually have to go to a separate
repo to grab the types for it.
So you have to say,
npm i -D @types/react@17.0.2
@types/react-dom@17.0.1,
And
@types/react-router-dom@5.1.7.
So these are these type files that
we're getting from the DefinitelyTyped
repository.
Okay, so
now if you look in your package.json,
you'll see here that we have
a bunch of type files here.
These are just the type definitions that
allow us to understand how React is typed.
Okay, now we're just gonna
go piece by piece and
convert piece by piece of
this app to TypeScript.
It's slower going, and
then it gets faster.